MISSION M28-1B-IOVERLANDER-PARTS
MISSION-CLASS: research
Niyyah: m28-1-ioverlander-study FAILED x2 (2026-06-12 03:30) on a receipted engine ceiling, not on the research itself: three attempts demanded the card COMPLETE in one emission, and the emissions came back empty twice and truncated mid-word once (witness receipts in the parent's events log). The single-emission demand was the bug in the mission text — books-website-knowledge proved the cure against this exact ceiling: per-section part files plus a command assembly step. This mission supersedes m28-1 with that shape. The research goal is unchanged: the iOverlander competitor card that feeds the m28 wedge work.
Maqsad: ONE assembled artifact — competitor-card-ioverlander.md at the sandbox root, built from FIVE part files. PLAN SHAPE: (1) ONE command step stages the backlog: if (Test-Path 'C:\vanlife\MUDDYTIRES-TASKS.md') { Copy-Item 'C:\vanlife\MUDDYTIRES-TASKS.md' .\MUDDYTIRES-TASKS.md }; (2) ONE command step produces MUDDYTIRES-TASKS.numbered.md by prefixing each line with Lnn; (3) FIVE SEPARATE edit steps author one part file each, every part a SMALL emission: part-1-product.md = Section 1 What iOverlander is (platforms, pricing, business model), live-web-search grounded with a URL cite on every factual claim; part-2-strengths.md = Section 2 What it does well, same cite discipline; part-3-weaknesses.md = Section 3 Where it falls down, every weakness either URL-cited or carrying an explicit marker reading inference, not in source — negative claims about the company with no source are PROHIBITED; part-4-overlap.md = Section 4 Overlap map, one row per backlog item F1 through F11, each row citing [MUDDYTIRES-TASKS.numbered.md Lnn]; part-5-wedge.md = Section 5 Gap verdict with exactly three complete-sentence wedge demands labeled Demand 1: Demand 2: Demand 3:, each grounded in the earlier parts; (4) ONE command step assembles: writes a '# Competitor Card — iOverlander' header line then concatenates part-1 through part-5 into competitor-card-ioverlander.md; (5) ONE command step validates with Select-String that the assembled card contains all five section headers, a row for each of F1 through F11, and the three Demand labels. Done means: competitor-card-ioverlander.md exists at the sandbox root and the validation step confirms five section headers, F1-through-F11 overlap rows, and Demand 1/2/3 present; factual claims carry URL or Lnn cites or an explicit inference marker.
Context: separate verified facts from inference explicitly — the parent's attempt-2 witness flagged single-source dependency and unsourced negative claims; do not assert what a cite cannot carry. Live web search is required for Sections 1-3. Sandbox writes only.
REQUIRES: search
Amanah: entrusted; discharge with ihsan.
