MISSION-ID: engine-probe-verb-loop
REPO-ROOT: C:\Users\marka\.claude\muezzin-plugin
ALLOW-FILES:
  - conduct-beat-local.mjs
  - conduct-beat-local.probe.test.mjs
REQUIRES: none
STEPS: 4

AMENDED 2026-08-02T05:2xZ — attempt 1 FAILED in plan phase, 3 attempts, and the engine named
the defect exactly:

  "one-writer: 'conduct-beat-local.mjs' is written by BOTH step 2 and step 3 — a file has
   exactly one authoring (edit/command) step; later steps may only READ it (list it in
   context_dependencies, action_type 'verify')"

The original text split the edit across steps 2, 3 and 4. That is a MISSION-TEXT defect, not
an engine bug and not a capability gap: the planner cannot assign two authors to one file, so
it re-planned into the same wall for ~26 minutes. Fix applied here: conduct-beat-local.mjs now
has EXACTLY ONE authoring step (step 2). Every later step READS it and verifies.

Maqsad: give the local conductor seat the ability to REACH. Today conduct-beat-local.mjs
digests the board into a summary, sends ONE prompt, and parses ONE allowlisted verb
(report / hold / restart-daemon / record). The seat is handed a pre-chewed state and asked for
a verdict. It has no probe, no second turn, and therefore no way to find anything out. Add a
read-only probe verb and the one extra turn that makes it a loop.

WHY THIS IS THE RIGHT LEVER, receipted 2026-08-02 — do NOT re-solve this by retraining:
  * CLAUDE.md D2 teaches the behaviour verbatim: "Your first move on uncertainty is action,
    not consultation."
  * train-v33.jsonl CANNOT teach it: 323/360 targets (89%) name a probe, but only 38/360
    report what a probe RETURNED, and 0 of 360 rows have more than one turn — every row is
    exactly [system, user, assistant]. There is no shape in that dataset in which
    reach -> tool answers -> ship can be written down. A DATA-SHAPE limit, not a rank/epoch/lr
    problem, and retrying it as one is the recorded failure mode.
  * Not a capability gap either: in phase3/fullloop-v1.py the tuned 27B, GIVEN the three turns
    by the harness, handled the returned tool output correctly 7/8 — including the EMPTY and
    ERROR cases, where it named the gap and invented nothing.
  * nemotron-3-ultra (550B), which never saw this corpus, shipped after reaching ZERO times.
    The behaviour is rare in general. The harness has to supply the loop.

niyyah: the loop is added WITHOUT widening what the seat may do. The probe verb is READ-ONLY
and allowlisted by name; it can never mutate the board, the repo, or a mission. The existing
gateAction ruling, the per-turn rijal JSONL record, and the think-false flag are reused as they
stand — this mission adds a verb and a turn, not a new execution path. A seat that can read
more must not thereby be able to write more.

Steps:

1. READ conduct-beat-local.mjs in full (163 lines) for context: the verb allowlist inside
   gateAction, the JSON-extraction helper, the /api/chat call site, the rijal record fields,
   and the existing --selftest block with its five polarity checks. Author nothing.
   NOTE ON WHAT GUARDS THE EXISTING BEHAVIOUR: an earlier draft of this mission asked step 1 to
   "record a baseline" that a later step would "assert against". An adversarial pass killed
   that as unenforceable prose — no mechanical check can verify it. The real guard already
   exists in the file: `node conduct-beat-local.mjs --selftest` asserts all five pre-existing
   verb polarities (sweep-ordered record EXECUTES, non-allowlisted verb PROPOSED, uninvented-
   stem record PROPOSED, restart-with-lane REFUSED, garbage output REFUSED). Step 4 runs it and
   requires ALL PASS. That is the enforceable contract; this step is context only.

2. THE ONE AUTHORING STEP FOR conduct-beat-local.mjs. Make all of the following edits to that
   file in this single step, and do not touch it again in any later step:
   (a) A PROBES map of READ-ONLY probes, each a named function with one bounded argument:
         read_board_line(<mission-stem>)  -- that mission's current AUTORUN line
         read_retro(<mission-stem>)       -- newest retro file for that mission
         read_result_json(<mission-stem>) -- that mission's result receipts
         lanes_now()                      -- daemon lane state
       Every probe: read-only, path-confined to REPO-ROOT, argument validated against
       /^[A-Za-z0-9._-]{1,120}$/ so separators and traversal are impossible, output clipped to
       <= 1200 chars, and returning the EMPTY STRING when there is nothing — never a
       placeholder and never a "not found" sentence the model could quote back as a finding.
   (b) Extend gateAction with the probe verb: allow ONLY when args.name is a key of PROBES and
       args.arg matches the safe pattern; otherwise refused. Do not alter any existing verb's
       ruling or its wording.
   (c) Make the beat a bounded loop: when the gated verb is probe, execute it, append the
       result to the conversation as a tool turn, and re-ask. MAX 3 probes per beat, then force
       a terminal verb. Each probe turn appends its own rijal record carrying the probe name,
       its argument, and whether the result was EMPTY — so a beat that reached and got nothing
       is distinguishable in the log from a beat that never reached. An EMPTY probe result is
       NOT an error and must not abort the beat; it is the case most worth logging.
   (d) Update the LAWS system prompt so the seat is told the probe verb exists, that it may
       probe at most 3 times, and that if a probe returns nothing it must say so and must not
       invent what the probe would have said.

3. AUTHOR conduct-beat-local.probe.test.mjs. It imports from conduct-beat-local.mjs
   (context_dependencies: conduct-beat-local.mjs, READ ONLY — that file's single author was
   step 2 and it must not be edited here). With no model dispatched (stub the backend via the
   existing backendFn injection point), assert: (a) a valid probe is allowed and executed;
   (b) an unknown probe name is REFUSED, not executed; (c) a path-traversal argument is
   REFUSED; (d) the loop terminates at 3 probes; (e) an EMPTY probe result still produces a
   rijal record with the empty flag set and does not throw; (f) every pre-existing verb gates
   exactly as it did before, asserted against the baseline captured in step 1.

4. VERIFY only — author nothing. Run all three and report exit codes verbatim:
     node --check conduct-beat-local.mjs
     node conduct-beat-local.probe.test.mjs
     node conduct-beat-local.mjs --selftest
   These three ARE the mechanical guarantee, and they cover the risk of concentrating four
   edits into one authoring step (an adversarial pass flagged partial application as the most
   likely attempt-2 failure): --check catches a syntax break, --selftest catches any change to
   the five pre-existing verb rulings, and the new test covers the probe surface itself. If
   --selftest stops printing ALL PASS, a pre-existing ruling moved and step 2 must be reverted.

Done-means: all three commands exit 0; --selftest still prints ALL PASS; the new test asserts
all six probe properties; and the four probes are read-only and REPO-ROOT-confined.

STOP CONDITIONS — report, do not improvise:
- A lane is RUNNING against this repo: STOP. Never write into a repo mid-lane.
- Any probe would need write access to satisfy a step: STOP. The read-only boundary is the
  point of the mission, not an obstacle in it.
- A pre-existing verb's gate ruling changes, or --selftest stops printing ALL PASS: STOP and
  revert. This mission adds; it does not renegotiate what the seat may already do.
- More than one step would edit conduct-beat-local.mjs: STOP. That is the exact one-writer
  violation that failed attempt 1, and re-introducing it re-enters the same plan-phase loop.
- Temptation to fix the routing gap by generating a v3.4 multi-turn corpus and retraining:
  STOP. The receipts above already ruled that lever out for THIS gap.
