MISSION: retro-audit-early-dones — i'adah of the two pre-panel DONEs
MISSION-CLASS: research

Maqsad: The only two missions ever marked DONE (card-2boots, card-regulativity)
were completed BEFORE the verdict panel, citation gate, and absence-claim
scrutiny existed. Their artifacts pass today's standards only by assumption.
This mission re-examines both EXISTING artifacts under the current bar and
produces one audit verdict card. It re-judges; it does not re-author.

Niyyah: hold yesterday's work to today's scrutiny so "DONE" means one thing
across the whole ledger — a DONE that predates the gates is a claim, not a deed,
until re-witnessed.

Inputs (gather, do not modify):
- missions/card-2boots/ — the 8.7KB delivered card + its mission text
- missions/card-regulativity/ — the delivered card + its mission text

Work: ONE artifact, retro-audit-verdict.md, containing for EACH of the two cards:
1. The original mission's Done-means kernel (quote it — its Arafat).
2. Whether the delivered artifact satisfies that kernel TODAY (cite the card's
   own sections; no claim without a quoted basis).
3. Findings classified arkan / wajib / sunnah per the graduated standard.
4. Verdict per card: STANDS (still valid) / STANDS-WITH-DAMM (valid, gaps queued)
   / INVALID (arkan violation — the DONE mark was wrong).

Done means: retro-audit-verdict.md exists with all four elements for BOTH cards,
every claim citing quoted card text. The single essential criterion (Arafat):
each card receives an explicit STANDS / STANDS-WITH-DAMM / INVALID verdict with
a quoted basis. If a card is judged INVALID, say so plainly — the audit exists
to find exactly that, and an honest INVALID is a success of this mission, not a
failure.

RESHAPE 15:00 (planner refused 0-target audit steps, x2): use the PROVEN
gather-then-author shape —
- COMMAND steps stage the two cards:
    Copy-Item '..\card-2boots\*.md' . -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
    Copy-Item '..\card-regulativity\*.md' . -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
- ONE emit step authors retro-audit-verdict.md with the staged cards as
  context_dependencies. All other terms unchanged (four elements per card; the
  STANDS / STANDS-WITH-DAMM / INVALID Arafat).
